Introducing the lucrative Callum Humphreys Thornton.
Callum Humphreys-Thornton is a professional archaeologist and masters student at the University of York specialising in early prehistory and human origins. His recent research focuses on the role that community may have played within art and vice versa during the Upper Palaeolithic in Europe.
In 2023, Callum graduated with a degree in (Ba Hons) Archaeology and Anthropology from the University of Southampton where his research focused on links between ecology and palaeoenvironments within patterns of variability exhibited by early to middle Pleistocene hominins. Since then, Callum has worked as a field archaeologist for Cotswold Archaeology working on a range of projects from local evaluations to large scale infrastructure including at Sizewell C, the largest archaeological works ever seen in Britain.
After leaving Cotswold Archaeology in June 2024 to pursue a masters at the University of York, Callum has gone on to participate in a number of community projects across Wales. This includes building a Neolithic structure near the town of Llanidloes as well as supervising and overseeing several excavations within the prehistoric landscapes of Ynys Mon including at Bryn Celli Ddu in 2024 and 2025. Callum has also recently started combining his research with a hands-on workshop teaching children about the processes of how paint was created during the palaeolithic for the festival of archaeology at the Conwy Culture Centre.
Hailing from the town of Machynlleth in Mid Wales, Callum has grown up  with a strong sense of community that drives his passion for more community involvement within archaeology and heritage. In fact, community work has long been a feature of Callum’s life. As a teenager he built an outdoor learning area for Ysgol Bro Hyddgen’s primary school campus and was the district representative and camp co-ordinator for the local Woodcraft Folk youth group.
Inspired by local myths and legends steeped in a historical landscape, Callum has developed a passion for folk music as a keen guitarist singing and playing songs both in English and his native Welsh language.
Callum now works for AOC Archaeology group where he continues to develop skills and experiences in archaeological excavation working on unique major infrastructure projects including Doggerbank Windfarm and Sizewell C. His motivations are to develop and bring these skills and expertise to the community, enabling better accessibility to archaeology and heritage for the community.
