Introducing the ungovernable Dr Mike Woods.
Mike is an award winning landscape Archaeologist and geophysicist that specialises in the prehistory of the British Isles, in particular the Late Neolithic and Early Bronze Age ritual landscapes and monuments, Iron Age hillforts , 17th century magic and witchcraft in Lancashire and archaeological prospection.
Mike graduated from the University of Lancashire with a high 1st in his degree, which focused on his discovery of a Bronze Age ring ditch burial within the enclosure of an Iron Age hillfort known as Portfield Camp in Whalley, Lancashire. He went on to gain a high 1st in his Masters which documented a large scale geophysical survey carried out across four henge monuments in the Milfield basin, Northumberland. Mike completed his PhD thesis at Manchester Metropolitan University, with his study utilizing geophysics, excavation and other archaeological prospection techniques to investigate the Late Neolithic/Early Bronze Age ritual landscapes on the Isle of Anglesey in North Wales.
Mike won an award at the Posters in Parliament competition at Westminster with the presentation of his discovery of an Iron Age hillfort at Watermeetings, Lancashire. Mike was also employed as the on-set archaeologist working alongside HBO on House of the Dragon season 2 in Dinorwig Quarry, North Wales.
His archaeological work has been featured on BBC’s Digging for Britain, Sky Travels Expedition Unknown and Channel 5’s Digging Up Britains Past with the witchcraft episode focusing on Mikes search for the lost Malkin Tower, home of the Pendle Witches. Mikes work has also been reported on by the BBC, The Guardian, The Sun, The Daily Mail and Fox News. 
Mikes current research studies the prehistory of the Isle of Anglesey with recent discoveries including a stone circle, a Bronze Age cemetery and an Iron Age settlement, with a focus on community involvement and education.

Introducing the flamboyant Tom Blackburn.
Tom Blackburn is a Research Masters student with Manchester Metropolitan University specialising in experimental Archaeology, specifically Iron and Bronze Work. He has been a metal worker based in Macclesfield for 10 years and has taken his passion for tool making into his studies and is now studying bronze mould production techniques of the Bronze Age.
Tom graduated with an undergraduate degree in History from Manchester Metropolitan University in 2023 before continuing his studies as a research student in 2024. Over the last year Tom has worked over several excavations on Anglesey at Bryn Celli Ddu and other sites over the island in addition to participating in a number of Experimental Archaeology Festivals and events alongside groups such as Guerilla Archaeology, Bangor University, and volunteering with other smiths at Chaulk History Festival in Salisbury in 2024.
Tom's passion for community work and the use of practical skills to explore the past has recently led him to organising an experimental iron smelt in Abersoch at Felin Uchaf. Here he organised and led a group of Welsh Military veterans in learning new skills in ancient blacksmithing and smelting. After which volunteers were able to successfully produce their own Iron using methods that would have been used during the Iron age.
Tom’s current research is re-evaluating the creation and use of the moulds used to create bronze tools, specifically looking at a stone Bronze Age mould held in the Oriel Mon. This research not only looks at ancient metal work and at artifacts found local to Anglesey, but also incorporates cutting edge technology in the form of structured light scanning ,microscope analysis and 3d printing. By working with Print City Manchester he hopes to create new ways of studying and recreating the technology of the past in a more comprehensive manner.
Whilst working throughout his studies as a chef Tom has also been able to bring his culinary skills to the field by showing and teaching people how to make and prepare their own food without the requirement of a modern kitchen, here he has helped people engage fully with not only the work that their ancestors would have done, but also how they would have eaten and lived their lives increasing the immersion participants have felt during the events he has led.
As an award winning painter Tom has brought this experience by engaging with artists during a community led exercise combining both art and archaeology. With the assistance of a local art class further enhanced by taking both video and audio interviews with attendees of the 2025 Bryn Celli Ddu dig to capture the experience and benefits from the community directly.

Introducing the lucrative Callum Humphreys Thornton.
Callum Humphreys-Thornton is a professional archaeologist and masters student at the University of York specialising in early prehistory and human origins. His recent research focuses on the role that community may have played within art and vice versa during the Upper Palaeolithic in Europe.
In 2023, Callum graduated with a degree in (Ba Hons) Archaeology and Anthropology from the University of Southampton where his research focused on links between ecology and palaeoenvironments within patterns of variability exhibited by early to middle Pleistocene hominins. Since then, Callum has worked as a field archaeologist for Cotswold Archaeology working on a range of projects from local evaluations to large scale infrastructure including at Sizewell C, the largest archaeological works ever seen in Britain.
After leaving Cotswold Archaeology in June 2024 to pursue a masters at the University of York, Callum has gone on to participate in a number of community projects across Wales. This includes building a Neolithic structure near the town of Llanidloes as well as supervising and overseeing several excavations within the prehistoric landscapes of Ynys Mon including at Bryn Celli Ddu in 2024 and 2025. Callum has also recently started combining his research with a hands-on workshop teaching children about the processes of how paint was created during the palaeolithic for the festival of archaeology at the Conwy Culture Centre.
Hailing from the town of Machynlleth in Mid Wales, Callum has grown up  with a strong sense of community that drives his passion for more community involvement within archaeology and heritage. In fact, community work has long been a feature of Callum’s life. As a teenager he built an outdoor learning area for Ysgol Bro Hyddgen’s primary school campus and was the district representative and camp co-ordinator for the local Woodcraft Folk youth group.
Inspired by local myths and legends steeped in a historical landscape, Callum has developed a passion for folk music as a keen guitarist singing and playing songs both in English and his native Welsh language.
Callum now works for AOC Archaeology group where he continues to develop skills and experiences in archaeological excavation working on unique major infrastructure projects including Doggerbank Windfarm and Sizewell C. His motivations are to develop and bring these skills and expertise to the community, enabling better accessibility to archaeology and heritage for the community.