Introducing the flamboyant Tom Blackburn.
Tom Blackburn is a Research Masters student with Manchester Metropolitan University specialising in experimental Archaeology, specifically Iron and Bronze Work. He has been a metal worker based in Macclesfield for 10 years and has taken his passion for tool making into his studies and is now studying bronze mould production techniques of the Bronze Age.
Tom graduated with an undergraduate degree in History from Manchester Metropolitan University in 2023 before continuing his studies as a research student in 2024. Over the last year Tom has worked over several excavations on Anglesey at Bryn Celli Ddu and other sites over the island in addition to participating in a number of Experimental Archaeology Festivals and events alongside groups such as Guerilla Archaeology, Bangor University, and volunteering with other smiths at Chaulk History Festival in Salisbury in 2024.
Tom's passion for community work and the use of practical skills to explore the past has recently led him to organising an experimental iron smelt in Abersoch at Felin Uchaf. Here he organised and led a group of Welsh Military veterans in learning new skills in ancient blacksmithing and smelting. After which volunteers were able to successfully produce their own Iron using methods that would have been used during the Iron age.
Tom’s current research is re-evaluating the creation and use of the moulds used to create bronze tools, specifically looking at a stone Bronze Age mould held in the Oriel Mon. This research not only looks at ancient metal work and at artifacts found local to Anglesey, but also incorporates cutting edge technology in the form of structured light scanning ,microscope analysis and 3d printing. By working with Print City Manchester he hopes to create new ways of studying and recreating the technology of the past in a more comprehensive manner.
Whilst working throughout his studies as a chef Tom has also been able to bring his culinary skills to the field by showing and teaching people how to make and prepare their own food without the requirement of a modern kitchen, here he has helped people engage fully with not only the work that their ancestors would have done, but also how they would have eaten and lived their lives increasing the immersion participants have felt during the events he has led.
As an award winning painter Tom has brought this experience by engaging with artists during a community led exercise combining both art and archaeology. With the assistance of a local art class further enhanced by taking both video and audio interviews with attendees of the 2025 Bryn Celli Ddu dig to capture the experience and benefits from the community directly.
